hey guys I'm recording a long probably
hour long maybe longer exclusive video
for patreon for my patreon subscribers
so if you want to support this channel
if you want to support my long-term
future in the vegan movement if you want
to support what I do on YouTube right
now if you want to support the creation
this kind of content please click on the
link below this video come to patreon
and support my channel however in this
excerpt this opening snippet that I'm
going to share on YouTube I'll just
mention if you've been watching this
channel for one full year just about one
year ago exactly I flew to Germany to
see my daughter and at that time I held
up a tube of toothpaste on camera in a
video which I wasn't particularly sad on
screen
but you could tell by my voice and so on
that I was really pretty upset about
various things in my life really I mean
although the situation my divorce of my
daughter is one thing to be upset about
a lot of the misery I was dealing with
in Canada had to do with conditions at
my university the hopelessness of trying
to learn Chinese or Japanese in that
University Department the hopeless
position it put me in studying at that
university in terms of my long term
career and so on and so there were many
many sources stressed my life at that
time including searching for a job
searching for a ph.d program etc but
about one year ago today I held up a
tube of toothpaste on camera for a
special reason and I said that tube of
toothpaste I bought it the last time I
saw my daughter and I decided out of
pure literary symbolism indulging in
literary symbolism in one's own life I
would use that same tube of toothpaste
every day until I saw my daughter again
so that tube of toothpaste I bought in
Taiwan when I was together with my
daughter in Taiwan and then I made that
tube of toothpaste last before I think
more than one year was a good size do
with you faced and while I was in Canada
I had this you know
just look bizarre cuz it was in Chinese
I had this Chinese tube of toothpaste
they bought in Taiwan that I used day
after day every day during the long year
and more when I was waiting to see my
daughter again and then when I traveled
from Canada to Germany to visit my
daughter I had that Tula toothpaste with
me so I was in Germany using this
Chinese toothpaste and of course you
know it's enough time it was getting it
was getting pretty close to empty and I
decided to continue the tradition I
decided that I would buy a tube of
toothpaste then and there when I saw my
daughter again and then I would use that
same tube of toothpaste every day to
memorialize or commemorate her as this
kind of literary symbolism in my life
until the next time I saw my daughter so
before I was in Germany using a Chinese
brand a toothpaste and now here I am in
China and I have a German it's that I've
been using every day since the last time
I saw mother it was a real it was big it
was it had a lot of quantity it was a
really big fat too but youth base when
it started and now day by day this is
getting closer to empty so the question
is when is the next time I will see my
daughter now I had some bad news it's
done where there's good news coming
after it I talked to my lawyer at one
point and when I asked him I said look I
really need an estimate from you for
when when is the next court date gonna
happen in France because there my
respect the next court date I absolutely
can't lose it's just a matter of making
it happen it's a matter of getting the
paperwork done or what have you and
though I talked to him once and he said
look honestly it could be another 12
months
I'm not worth explaining the reasons why
et cetera but again this is not those of
you know some of the legal details case
it's a very it's a very one-sided case
to say it's weighted in my favor as an
understatement
I basically just have to show up and
prove that I'm alive but I need I need
the court system in France to get its
act together so I can show up and
deliver proof
and then basically as long as I'm alive
I will regain the right to spend quality
time with my daughter and then we'll
have to go through negotiating a
schedule and making arrangements and
what-have-you and we don't know whether
my daughter will come here and spend
time with me in China or if I'm gonna
have to go to Europe or how we're gonna
work this out or both could be only
above but you know it's one of those
things you just you're left to interpret
a silence in the court system very often
I think someone in the French Court
system took a glance at my legal
documents and realized oh my god this is
a real miscarriage of justice we really
need to prioritize this case because
there could have been another 12 months
delay and instead I now have a court
date coming up in early February
so I instead of 12 months after only
like say two months from that point less
than two months I think um you know my
my my court date my my case was
prioritized
so you don't get a you don't get an
explanation for that kind of thing in
the legal system but in this case I do
think somebody somebody was looking over
the documents and realized wow this
can't wait this can't be on a regular
schedule this needs to be stepped up so
I was getting concerned because if it
was gonna be another 12 months this
great the whole tradition I've started
of relying on the same team of two-faced
until I see my daughter again pushing my
luck I don't think this this can last
another 12 months but if I only have to
go and tell February if I'm going to be
packing your up and back in court in
February then I guess I can I can keep
keep this tube of toothpaste going until
early February and I guess what I want
to get that court date whether or not I
see her I don't think I'm gonna actually
see her in court I don't know how much
we'll get accomplished in that trip I'll
buy a new a new tube of toothpaste in
France then when I go to court and then
I guess I'll be back here in China with
a French tube of toothpaste instead of a
German
so you know it's it's it's the best of
times it's the worst of times you know I
never wanted to have a separation
between the patreon videos and the
YouTube videos where I'm only talking
about my personal life
on patreon like where that's more
private and where YouTube is more public
I really want to avoid that if you want
to join patreon it really in terms of
Q&A in terms of questions for my viewers
that's where I take questions and many
many videos on this channel are replies
to patreon viewers patreon supporters
I feel think that fundamentally rewards
the $1 it's also true that it's only on
patreon that I give opinions on things
that one I'm not an expert in and two I
don't think my regular YouTube videos
would demand to know so to give an
example I have a video what are my
thoughts on feminism and on 3rd wave
feminism and that's patreon only not
because it's private not because it's
secret but because that's an example I'm
not an expert on the history of feminism
it's not my forte in terms of politics
political science and then it's only
people ask me about many times but I
said okay this will be a patreon
exclusive video but like you know I
wouldn't want to be in a situation where
I talk about my divorce or my legal
cases or deeply personal things only on
patreon because for me one of the
reasons to be on YouTube in the first
place was to talk about deeply personal
things in my life past present and
future so you know as simple as it is I
do I do continue to struggle with that I
continue to struggle with the question
of where do you draw the line between
patreon exclusive content and made for
YouTube made for my my broader audience
content but in a sense I mean the
fundamental redeeming quality this
channel as God is keeping it real and in
the very real sense I would not be
keeping it real if I was only sharing
those
private elements of my life on patreon
then by definition the whole YouTube
channel will become phony even if it's
only 10% phony right and you know I'll
say this in a small way many times
before in this channel I have shouted
out the guys who really invented the
game here on YouTube guys like the
amazing atheist and a nice young Anna
Seon is a comedian here on YouTube you
know I was really thinking in the last
couple of weeks in the last two weeks I
was thinking I really wanted to bring
more of my personal life in the present
tense
on to YouTube and on to social media
generally I'm now a member of a of an
Instagram substitute a website called
nice I can give you the link below and
on nice this basically a photo sharing
platform like Instagram but Instagram is
blocked in China I can't use Instagram
it's illegal in China what if you want
to say so on this app nice you know I've
I've made a trip from from this city to
another city into Hong and back again
and I took photographs of this
incredibly beautiful place all right
this a bit odd I have this on screen but
you know the surroundings here are just
incredibly beautiful from my perspective
a beautiful and interesting and
inspiring in many ways you know I'm
taking these pictures you know and some
of them are literally pictures of
tropical fruit and pictures of the palm
trees and I'm thinking you know what
what's missing here there are no
pictures of the other people in my life
whether those are friends or girlfriends
or or acquaintances or whatever you know
what I mean
and it's been so long since I first
started this channel when it started I
wanted have other people on the channel
talking about politics with me I want to
have other people sitting in a chair
next and I just mean by a Skype you know
wand out more other voices and it was
really thinking to myself you know maybe
this should be my new year's resolution
for 2017 is to have less the less and
less content in which I'm isolating
myself and presenting myself in this
this packaged way because again it's
it's not phony it's not fake what you
see about my life in the internet is
real
but what's missing from it is exactly
the other people it's just me and that
in itself creates a kind of illusion
that I'm more isolated than I am even
though like you know if I had made an
effort when I was in Canada to put more
of my my friends in Canada barely had
any friends again but I did have some
short-term friends add some
acquaintances whatever I had some
friendships that were not particularly
deep when I was in Canada if I put those
people on camera whether on in
photographs or videos in a sense it
would be nice that I could now look back
and remember them but those people most
of those friendships were not
friendships that were going to last for
ten years or less the rest of my life or
anything but in a sense that's even more
of a reason to bring those people in you
know although it could be great to have
long-term friends with camera two anyway
guys like Annie see on and the amazing
atheist one of the reasons I showed them
out is that I think they really showed
us if you're new to the YouTube game if
you're thinking about coming on YouTube
[Music]
they showed us the risks and the rewards
of how this platform can work you know
and mmm just a couple days ago so ever
goes three days ago or what I happened
to see a one video from an se on in
terms of his current you know drama
unfolding the internet he's you know
fighting with his wife and his wife has
a girlfriend he has a fight with his
wife's girlfriend
i sat there and I looked at this and
thought what was I thinking
Wow
for many different reasons on many
different levels I could never put
myself in a situation as as terrible as
what anis ian has done to himself
repeatedly initio Nizza is a very very
stupid man
I think he's much less evil than people
imagine and much more stupid but Wow
[Music]
it was a really interesting moment cos
for me that was a wake-up call where I
suddenly had to ask those questions from
a very different angle and I think you
guys may have heard me say it's a long
time ago I think it's the most important
element of sympathy is the ability to
use sympathy as an analytical tool like
the point isn't to sympathize with
initia and so I feel bad for him or
something it doesn't matter it's neither
here nor there I look at an easy on and
I sympathize the situation he's in and I
realize you know I might think bringing
someone on camera or whether again even
if it's just photographs or just talking
or bring them on doing a podcast
together I might think that's safe I
might think that's harmless but Wow then
you see the kind of dangers this poses
and how it can derail everything you're
trying to do politically and it can even
derail what you're trying to do and just
being honest and share what's going on
in your real life so I mean look this is
a totally symbolic I mean in a really
weird literary sense this is a symbolic
gesture in my life this issue of the
toothpaste I think I mean the way I've
been talking about my situation with my
daughter Mack's wife it has largely been
symbolic it comes up you know my videos
I think it's my most important video in
this channel my vegan manifesto video
which is titled on community a video
that's now in ten languages if you
include English as a language but you
know we translated that to Chinese
Japanese so many languages we still
don't have Swedish the Swedes never
stepped up I've asked several people to
translate into Swedish and they never
come through but anyway that video on
community you know it just it doesn't
state an overly emotional way but it
states very factually but very
passionately look I have a daughter I
have to think about my daughter's future
I think about my future as a parent I
think about my role in the community
even growing older I have to think about
theoretically my grandparents being in
an old folks home and my daughter going
to school and how that's part of life as
a vegan
you know veganism is not just about the
permanent vacation it's not just about a
lifestyle in this isolated sense instead
of a lifestyle talking with a full cycle
of life
parenting growing old dying daycare
centers schools hospitals etc and
vacations - I mean vacations are also
part of life don't get me wrong I think
that I mean I think that's a kind of not
overly melodramatic way to just insist
again and again how I see myself and how
I'm living my life really has a lot to
do with my daughter the bottom line is
it was mentioned again my video now
giving an apartment tour the reason why
I'm learning Chinese at all is utterly
linked to my daughter and all of my
questions about my own future in terms
of my education and everything else are
still very much linked to my daughter
and you know there is an emotional side
to it the sorrow you go through in being
separated from a child especially when
you have the real uncertainty about
whether or not you'll ever see your
child again which was definitely true
say one year ago I mean right now I'm
very optimistic because I have a court
date in February and I can't remember I
can't lose this case there is no way for
me to lose this court case I just need
to have the case the case just needs to
progress so you know right now I'm very
optimistic that I'll see my daughter
getting relatively soon but there's been
good reason at many different points for
me to suspect or fear that I'm not just
separated from my daughter temporarily
but that my ex-wife was out of sheer
malice gonna prevent me from seeing my
daughter basically forever and so you
know just two very simple things my
connection to my daughter is the
fundamental reason for I'm learning the
Chinese language a language that don't
really want to learn and it's also the
fundamental reason as most you guys know
for why this YouTube channel exists so
that even if I never saw her again
if I get hit by a bus or I take an
airplane in my airplane crashes or if
somehow my wife pulls off some kind of
legal trickery to prevent me from seeing
my daughter it seems impossible at this
point but
maybe it's possible at a minimum one day
in the future ten years from now my
daughter can sit down and see these
YouTube videos and I know what kind of
guy I am so click on the link below this
video join my patreon channel and I hope
you guys will stick with me over the
long haul for this journey this channel
is not about drama
it's not about veganism it's not about
any one topic this channel is about me
and my life and the most hilarious
complaint I get from viewers which get
only once in a while but over time I do
get it again again so you know a couple
times a month people complain to me they
they complain why is he talking about
himself like they asked the cook of it
or the write to me directly saying why
are you talking about yourself you
shouldn't talk about yourself and
they'll say that in videos about
veganism but even on other topics I was
like well why are you talking about like
who you are and my answer to me it would
be very very funny if I didn't talk
about myself you know like if I just
came on and presented a perspective on
Cambodian politics or vegans talking
about why I care what my connection to
it is but again fundamentally this this
channel is not called welcome to
veganism 101 it's not it's called a
ballast yep this channel is about me in
my life and if you stick with this
channel or if you join the patreon and
stick with me on patreon you're gonna
get to see whatever my life becomes my
life has changed so much in the last one
year so fundamentally been through so
many dramatic changes in periods and you
know in some ways I know what's coming
up in the next one year I have a
one-year contract exactly 365 days from
now I will have already left China but
for the next one year I will be living
here in this beautiful and fascinating
part of Asia
learning Chinese doing other kinds of
research and what-have-you
when I returned to Canada doors to other
kinds of activism and political
organization will open for me
assuming I'm living in Canada if I go
back to Europe I could be living in
Europe again different kinds of activism
were open for me I am a very I'm very
much a grim realist about the prospects
for you know political activism
organization etc in the years ahead
but you guys know that I have the
passion you guys know that I have the
intent and you know that I'm constantly
looking for any positive opportunity to
have whether it's on the level of
organizing a charity or reducing a
foundation whether it's just organizing
friends or maybe starting a small
business like yes the the vegan vegan
restaurant vegan pancake restaurant or
something you know I I am looking for
those things all the time in my life and
I'm looking to connect with and
collaborate with other people who are on
that same footing of trying to build
something positive for a vegan future so
for better and for worse if you stick
with me if you support me on patreon
you'll get to see all the phases that
goes through and yeah it's possible
there will still be dramatic changes
right now I mean still to this day the
even speaking Chinese even if I go back
to Canada speaking Chinese fluently one
year from now I think the only career
paths open to me will be a police
officer and joining the military still
this day I don't think there are any
other positive career paths over me so I
could end up doing that kind of work
which would be entertaining for you guys
to watch and so it's but maybe also I'll
enroll in a ph.d program after all
I'll get more of a formal academic
footing maybe I will go more directly
into government one of the things that's
appealing about being a police officer
it can be a stepping stone to eventually
getting elected to city government local
government aldermen you know that this
type of petty elected office in
government
maybe I'll get a master's in public
administration and
more directly involved with a government
job at the same time as pursuing vegan
activism at this point in Canada I do
not think I would become a lawyer go to
law school but those question marks I'm
you know what can I say this is the
reality of what my life is and these are
the uncertainties about what my life
will become a short time ago I thought
that oh so someone of the audience is
asking what about becoming a paramedic
so I gave up on that plan a long long
time ago but there was a time when I was
enrolled I wasn't just a plan when I was
actually enrolled to become a paramedic
in a paramedic college in Canada that's
been mentioned probably on this YouTube
channel anyway you know it's the same
thing with the court case with
durianrider that's still ongoing now I
one of the complaints I hated which only
idiots gave me but some complete idiots
wrote to me saying you promised
durianrider would go to jail I said no I
didn't I said I promised I would pay a
law firm and we would file charges and I
said at every stage everybody is
innocent until proven guilty and I said
at every stage you can't know the
outcomes you know I did not promise to
put him in jail I promise to do the
right thing because it's the right thing
to do and in every single stage I
philosophically reflected on the fact
that yo you don't know like it may sound
stupid but like as an objective fact we
don't know if he's guilty or innocent we
don't know if the case has merit you
find out the hard way you put together
this case and you press these charges
because you you believe the case has
merit you believe it's the right thing
to do for veganism you believe it's the
right thing to do out of a sense of
justice and injustice there are so many
reasons to do it but it really bothered
me when people said oh you promised you
put in jail no I'm not giving you any
false promises but likewise with
activism I have never been promising
something I can't deliver on there are
some other you know YouTube channels who
promised you know extreme and edgy forms
of activism who promised they were gonna
start a revolution who promised street
protests who promised some kind of
in-your-face activism
or confronting people or what-have-you
and then often they lose interest in
that pretty quickly like you know soon
as they try for a little bit you know
I'm not promising any specific form of
activism I'm promising that you get to
see my own exploration my own discovery
of what's possible and what's impossible
in the year ahead and in the years ahead
plural and there's no false humility in
that right
there one of the ideas I'm now pursuing
you guys probably know I guess I'll give
the link I think it's a great video but
you know I made videos with the script
for this story book I wrote a children's
story book I wrote it in Chinese
transited the Chinese in English I'd
love to get nila straighter and
published that story book that idea was
first proposed on this channel for
another youtuber another youtuber was
lamenting or questioning how he could be
a meaningful part of the vegan movement
and why he didn't get any respect in the
vegan movement which I think are
sincerely questions worth asking I don't
want to ridicule him for that there are
other things who maybe should have
ridicule that guy for but it's another
story but I initially said look if
you're in this position where you don't
have a lot of options you're living in
Asia here's something positive you can
do write a story book get it translate
into several languages get get an
illustrator get a publisher so just say
that was originally advice I gave to
someone else and then whatever a year
and a half later or something I'm
following my own advice
so there are absolutely no false
promises you get to see this very
uncertain stumbling prog process for
myself as an individual and maybe for
the vegan movement around me and I don't
know I mean I I don't know I think I'll
have a lot of time while I'm here in
China
I've been worried at many stages one of
the reasons why I've uploaded so much in
the last year was that at several
different stages I was really worried
what if this is my last YouTube video
ever what if I'm cut off from the
internet for one year for a long time
and on a technological level there were
reasons to really be concerned about
that but if I do have the time to put
into really contributing even just
Digital demi-monde I wonder I wonder how
I can reach out to other people in
collaborate with other people just think
positive I wonder if I should be doing
something more like putting up you know
a weekly discussion show that's the real
China out outside of my window beeping
its horn at me anyway you know I wonder
if I should put up a weekly discussion
show reviewing and talking about what's
been going on in veganism at large and
of course veganism of the Internet I
wonder you know if I can bring in more
people through Skype or otherwise to
make this more of a positive crossroads
I wonder and ask myself those questions
all the time and even though those may
be small and shallow questions they are
questions about effective activism and
they're questions about in what ways can
I be an effective activist within the
time constraints and financial
constraints of my of my real life so
there's a guy named you know redneck -
vegan I'm gonna actually promote him on
this channel within the next couple of
days I think my shout out shout out to
him I think for a lot of us who are
fully grown adults in this people who
are not teenagers people who didn't just
sign up yesterday if you're sincere
about ethical veganism there's always
going to be an asymmetry between your
ambitions to change the world and your
ability to actually make a difference
and once you are an adult the main
reason why that asymmetry is so extreme
[Music]
is just that you have other duties you
have other moral obligations I have a
very real moral obligation to my
daughter
and part of that obligation involves
earning money and most of you whatever
if you're over 30 but probably if you're
over 20 likewise you have a life that's
not about lifestyle that's not about
personal beauty that's not about being
on vacation
even if you come the internet and
pretend so your life about you probably
have a life that as you get older a
larger and larger percentage of your
time is taken up by frankly moral
obligations and those moral obligations
are tied to economic obligations so
that's something we all struggle with
and you know the ambition that drives
you as an ethical vegan is so enormous
it's so enormous compared to the time
and energy you can put into even just
trying to find the tools or trying to
find the other people you can cooperate
with or trying to research a charity or
foundation and see what you can do I
mean you have this enormous ambition to
make the world a better place there was
of ecology in terms of animal rights etc
and then you have this you have a few
hours in a week and you ask yourself am
I gonna do a book review or what oh
because it is it is for the movement
right now I want to do a book review of
a new book 2015 book by Gary France I
own a let me get the title correct
Gary Fran Sione animal rights : the
abolitionist approach so that's his
that's his uh his latest that's his new
book you know and you know I invite you
guys to join in on that um you know if
other people want to read that book at
the same time as me I think that's great
it's not activism it's not advocacy it's
not anything but I mean that is a
meaningful sense in which you're doing
something for the movement where you're
thinking okay I want to read this book
so that I'm up-to-date with what the
debates are within veganism as a
political movement you know I wanna
maybe I want to come on the internet and
state my own perspective state my own
review I mean it is it is something
positive for the movement reading and
reviewing a book like that but I know
and you know I'll do this I'm gonna do
this now I'll give a link to that book
right now in China I'm not even sure how
I can get that book I need someone to
send me a PDF I tried ordering it on
Amazon I can't I can't order it as an
e-text I can't order it as a Kindle I
can't order it as a book on paper
somehow I've got to get the book it's
another story maybe someone is going to
response
but I know for a lot of you whether you
are washing dishes in the back of a
restaurant or you're literally on a boat
in the US military or you know you're an
architect or you work at Walmart no
matter what your job is the type of
commitments time energy emotion and
money ultimately to feel involved with
veganism and pursuing a vegan future and
to actually be involved making a
difference very very difficult to do and
guys one of the things I'm famous for
infamous for is saying from the start
what we're doing here on YouTube what
we're doing here on Facebook what we're
doing here on the internet whatever
portal you're using what we're doing
here on the internet is not activism and
it's not a community but it could be the
basis for activism it could be the basis
for community in the future there is one
sense in which it resembles a community
and as much as we talk about negative
peer pressure within the vegan scene the
vegan dilemma which is very real my
video on anorexia you can talk about the
fact that people feel they have to be
thin and wear a bikini in order to be a
vegan activist and then this connects to
eating disorders and crazy health diet
scams and all these other problems
there's negative peer pressure but one
of the positive things about committing
yourself to this digital portal is that
with what little time and energy you've
got there can also be positive peer
pressure you don't feel as isolated you
don't feel as much alone and I am alone
I just moved to Hong China I'm living
beneath the palm trees near the border
with Myanmar
in a part of China where nobody speaks
English and nobody's vegan you know
fascinating part of the world but the
reality is I'm not lonely I'm alone and
it does resemble a community in that one
sense that you feel you can or you
leave up to a higher standard dad you
shouldn't let other people down and I
think a lot of people who commit to this
who start making YouTube videos or start
representing veganism on their own
website or blog or writing articles or
on Facebook I do think that probably
many of those people not me but probably
many people at some point they maybe
wanted to cheat they wanted to waver or
they wanted to go from being vegan to
being just pescetarian or reduce it
Arian they wanted to kind of think out
on the movement I do think you can feel
a sort of positive peer pressure that
may prevent people from dropping out may
prevent people from losing hope but may
also positively motivate you just in
that small way to say hey you know what
I'm gonna read this book I'm gonna I'm
gonna do a book review I'm gonna stay up
to date with what's really going on in
the movement because I feel that I'm not
alone I feel that I'm part of a circle
of people even if they're people you
only know by email and they care about
the movement also and they care about me
and they care about my contribution to
the movement no matter how small or how
humble it might be so that's all I got
to say guys join my patreon if you want
to hear the full podcast I've got a long
list of other topics I'm going to talk
about but there you go
those are my non resolutions for the
year 2017 keeping it real no false
promises no false hope just real talk
hit me up